Initial documentation of entity configuration (#55103)
WordPress/gutenberg: packages/core-data/README.md

}
```

## What's an entity?

> An entity represents a WordPress REST API endpoint. Each item within the entity is called entity record. Available entities are defined in `rootEntitiesConfig` at ./src/entities.js.

Reviewer: For me REST API is just an implementation detail and my ultimate Goal has always been to decouple from the WordPress REST API using an adapter layer, so in that sense, I'm not a big fan for tieing a definition of an entity to the backend.

I'd define an entity as a type of "model/data" or something like that that the data layer provides to the consumers. Granted that the current definition is tied to the REST API though but this is consequential to me.

Author: Pushed an update that tones down the WordPress REST API in favor of a more general approach.

What follows is a description of some of the properties of `rootEntitiesConfig`.

## baseURL

- Type: string.
- Example: `'/wp/v2/users'`.

This property maps the entity to a given endpoint, representing its URL as defined in the [REST API handbook](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/#rest-api-developer-endpoint-reference).

## baseURLParams

- Type: `object`.
- Example: `{ context: 'edit' }`.

> Additional parameters to the request, if the endpoint supports it. The additional arguments available to the request are listed under arguments section. As an example, see the user entity and the [users endpoint](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/users/#list-users). By providing `{ context: 'edit' }` the server response will include all the fields in the [user schema](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/users/#schema) that belong to the `edit` context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional parameters to the request, if the endpoint supports it. The additional arguments available to the request are listed under the arguments section. As an example, see the user entity and the [users endpoint](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/users/#list-users). By providing `{ context: 'edit' }` the server response will include all the fields in the [user schema](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/users/#schema) that belong to the `edit` context.
```

## key

- Type: `string`.
- Example: `'slug'`.

> The endpoint response may be in different formats. It can be a simple object, which maps to a single entity record. This is the case of the site entity (settings endpoint):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The endpoint response may be in different formats. It can be a simple object, which maps to a single entity record. This is the case for the site entity (settings endpoint):
```

```json
{
	"title": "...",
	"description": "...",
	"...": "..."
}
```

> The most common format is for the response to be a collection represented as an array, which maps to as many entity records as elements of the array. This is the case of the use entity (users endpoint):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most common format is for the response to be a collection represented as an array, which maps to as many entity records as elements of the array. This is the case for the user entity (users endpoint):
```

```json
[
	{ id: 1, "name": "...", "...": "..." },
	{ id: 2, "name": "...", "...": "..." },
	{ id: 3, "name": "...", "...": "..." },
]
```

> There's also cases in which a collection is represented as an object. In this case, for the entity records to be recognized by the entities engine, the entity configuration needs to provide which field is acting as `key` for the object. This is the case of the status entity, which sets `slug` as the collection's `key`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are also cases in which a collection is represented as an object. In this case, for the entity records to be recognized by the entities engine, the entity configuration must provide which field is acting as the `key` for the object. This is the case for the status entity, which sets `slug` as the collection's `key`:
```

}
```

## What's an entity?

> An entity represents a data source. Each item within the entity is called entity record. Available entities are defined in `rootEntitiesConfig` at ./src/entities.js.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An entity represents a data source. Each item within the entity is called an entity record. Available entities are defined in `rootEntitiesConfig` at ./src/entities.js.
```
